1.DEVOPS DEFENTION: DevOps is a process of continously deploying the applications. for example developer develop something it should be deploy and testing on the same day
  it will be get a immediate feedback its a chance for correction.

2.DEVOPS ENGINEER RESPONSIBILITY: Deploying the applications as fast as possible i.e, speed and accuracy makes us the devops 
  engineer resposibility, contuniously monitoring the appliactions 

3. Grep: Grep command is used for searching the text within the files and streams of data.

4. Pipe: Pipe command is used to output of the one command is to input of the another command. facilitating the chaining of multinple 
		 commands together a single command.
		 
5. curl: curl command is used to transfer data to or from a server

6. cut : cut command is for extracting sections from each line of file (or) streams of data. It's particlary useful for manipulating
		  the text bases data. such as log files or .csv files
		  
7. awk: It operates on text files , reading data line by line

8. Monolithic: The Entire applications built as a single Unit. All the components such as user interface, business logic, data layer are tightly
				coupled together and deployed. Monolithic offers simplicity and ease of develepment and may stuggle with 
				scalability and flexibility.
				
9. Microservices: The application is divided into a set of smaller independent services. each service as specific business logic 
					these services are communicate each other through API's. Each service is developed and deployed and scaled
					independently. microservices offers scalability and flexibility but struggle with develepment and operates.
					
10. Public Ip Address: Public Ip address is assigned to the devices to a netwrok. its unique across the internet , devices communicated 
						direct globly.

11. Private Ip Adress: Private Ip address is asinged to the divices to a private netwrok like home or office netwrok. 
						divices are communicate internally within the private netwrok.
						
12. Ansible Role: Ansible Role is DRY priciple it will have a proper directoty structure. we can share the roles with other users.

13. Common: common is also a role we can keep common things between roles we will call whenever its required.

14. Ansible.cfg: Its contains settings of inventory location, ssh connection operations, privillage escalation, parrell forks,
				 log path many other defaults for playbook execution.
				 
15. handlers: Handlers in ansible are special task that can run only when notified by other task. They are typically used to trigger actions like 
				restarting the service when configuration file changes avoid unneccessary restarts.
				
16.Ansible-vault: Ansible valut is stores the sensitive data such as passwords, secret keys, certificates, it helps in keeping 
					secrets safe while maintaining them in source control .

17. Dynamic Inventory: It is used to fetch the host information dynamically from external source like aws cloud. Instead of 
						hardcoding hosts in a static in a static Inventory file.
						
		 
		 